CASMPET-7619/CASMPET-7620/CASMPET-7621/CASMPET-7630/CASMPET-7632: Create/fix procedures for changing iSCSI workers (#6132)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/iscsi_sbps/iscsi_sbps.md

[Data Virtualization Service (DVS)](../../glossary.md#data-virtualization-service-dvs).
SBPS projects boot content like `rootfs` and [Cray Programming Environment (CPE)](../../glossary.md#cray-programming-environment-cpe) images.
SBPS is aimed to offer better reliability, availability, security, ease and speed of deployment and ease of management than CPS/DVS.

> SBPS was introduced in CSM 1.6. In CSM 1.7, support is removed for projecting root filesystems and PE images using CPS and DVS. And also, in CSM 1.7 support for selective worker node personalization feature is introduced with iSCSI SBPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SBPS was introduced in CSM 1.6. In CSM 1.7.0, support is removed for projecting root filesystems and PE images using CPS and DVS. Also in CSM 1.7.0, the iSCSI SBPS selective worker node personalization feature is introduced.
```

[Data Virtualization Service (DVS)](../../glossary.md#data-virtualization-service-dvs).
SBPS projects boot content like `rootfs` and [Cray Programming Environment (CPE)](../../glossary.md#cray-programming-environment-cpe) images.
SBPS is aimed to offer better reliability, availability, security, ease and speed of deployment and ease of management than CPS/DVS.

> SBPS was introduced in CSM 1.6. In CSM 1.7.0 support is removed for projecting root filesystems and PE images using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SBPS was introduced in CSM 1.6. In CSM 1.7.0, support is removed for projecting root filesystems and PE images using
```

> CPS and DVS. Also, in CSM 1.7.0, the iSCSI SBPS selective worker node personalization feature is introduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPS and DVS. Also in CSM 1.7.0, the iSCSI SBPS [selective worker node personalization](#selective-worker-node-personalization)
feature is introduced.
```

### 1. Worker node personalization

> Node personalization is the prerequisite step of SBPS solution where we need to first setup/configure worker nodes as iSCSI targets (servers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node personalization is the prerequisite step of SBPS solution where worker nodes are configured as iSCSI targets (servers)
```

> with necessary provisioning, configuration and enable required components. The required RPMs for `targetcli` command / LIO are part of NCN node image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with necessary provisioning. The required RPMs for the `targetcli` command and LIO are part of the NCN node image.
```

The SBPS Marshal Agent gets installed during node personalization using CFS.

#### Selective worker node personalization

In CSM 1.6, all worker nodes are configured and enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets using
[Management Node Personalization](../configuration_management/Management_Node_Personalization.md)

Starting in CSM 1.7.0, selective iSCSI worker node personalization is introduced.
All worker nodes are still **configured** for iSCSI, but selective node personalization gives
administrators control over which worker nodes are enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets.

The default behavior is still the same as in CSM 1.6, so if no action is taken to use this
feature, then all worker nodes will continue to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

For details on iSCSI selective worker node personalization,

> see [Managing selective node personalization](Managing_selective_node_personalization.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see [Managing Selective Node Personalization](Managing_selective_node_personalization.md).
```

with necessary provisioning, configuration and enable required components. The required RPMs for `targetcli` command / LIO are part of NCN node image in CSM 1.6.
The SBPS Marshal Agent gets installed during node personalization using CFS.

> In CSM 1.6.0, all worker nodes are configured and enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets during worker node personalization.
> 
> In CSM 1.7.0, selective iSCSI worker node personalization is introduced. All worker nodes are still **configured** for
> iSCSI, but selective node personalization gives administrators control over which worker nodes are enabled as iSCSI SBPS
> targets. The default behavior is still the same as in CSM 1.6.0, so if no action is taken to use this feature, then all
> worker nodes will continue to be enabled as iSCSI targets.
> 
> Selective iSCSI worker node personalization uses an HSM group named `iscsi_worker` as the mechanism for an administrator
> to specify which workers should be enabled as iSCSI targets. If this group does not exist, then all worker nodes will be
> enabled as iSCSI targets. While it is technically possible to create this group and leave it empty, this will mean that
> no worker nodes will be enabled as iSCSI targets, which in turn will mean that no managed nodes will be able to boot.
> Therefore CSM generally treats it as an error if the HSM group exists but it contains no worker nodes.
> 
> For details on creating this group, see [Managing selective node personalization](../iscsi_sbps/Managing_selective_node_personalization.md) and this has to be done in certain stages in below scenarios to avail this feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Selective worker node personalization

In CSM 1.6, all worker nodes are configured and enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets during [Management Node Personalization](Management_Node_Personalization.md).

Starting in CSM 1.7.0, iSCSI selective worker node personalization is introduced. All worker nodes are still **configured** for
iSCSI, but selective node personalization gives administrators control over which worker nodes are enabled as iSCSI SBPS
targets. The default behavior is still the same as in CSM 1.6, so if no action is taken to use this feature, then all
worker nodes will continue to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

For details on iSCSI selective worker node personalization, see [Managing Selective Node Personalization](Managing_Selective_Node_Personalization.md).

### Worker node personalization procedure

This procedure varies depending on whether this is being done during a fresh install of CSM, an upgrade from CSM 1.6 to CSM 1.7, or on an operational CSM 1.7+ system.
```

And this stuff should move to the `Managing Selective Node Personalization` page:
```
Selective iSCSI worker node personalization uses an HSM group named `iscsi_worker` as the mechanism for an administrator
to specify which workers should be enabled as iSCSI targets. If this group does not exist, then all worker nodes will be
enabled as iSCSI targets. While it is technically possible to create this group and leave it empty, this will mean that
no worker nodes will be enabled as iSCSI targets, which in turn will mean that no managed nodes will be able to boot.
Therefore CSM generally treats it as an error if the HSM group exists but it contains no worker nodes.
```

> 1) Fresh Install:

Reviewer: This doesn't seem like it should be a numbered list. This makes more sense as a subsection header.

```suggestion
#### Worker node personalization during fresh CSM install
```

Reviewer: Talked to Ashalatha. We've agreed that this part of the `iscsi_sbps.md` page is going to be covered by the revisions to the "Manage selective node personalization" page. So I'm going to mark this comment resolved. I'll be reviewing the updates made to the other page, so if there are problems after the move, I can make new comments.

     1.1 Create HSM group

>      1.2 Enable/ Configure iSCSI SBPS

Reviewer: What is this list? If I was an admin reading this, I'd assume these are steps I have to follow. But step 1 is only needed if I want to use that feature. And step 2 isn't anything I do explicitly. Some text needs to be added before these to provide context.

Reviewer: Talked to Ashalatha. We've agreed that this part of the `iscsi_sbps.md` page is going to be covered by the revisions to the "Manage selective node personalization" page. So I'm going to mark this comment resolved. I'll be reviewing the updates made to the other page, so if there are problems after the move, I can make new comments.

>      For creating HSM group, please refer [Managing_selective_node_personalization](../iscsi_sbps/Managing_selective_node_personalization.md)

Reviewer: The `../iscsi_sbps/` is superfluous, since this document is already in that directory.

```suggestion
     For creating HSM group, see [Managing_selective_node_personalization](Managing_selective_node_personalization.md)
```

Reviewer: Talked to Ashalatha. We've agreed that this part of the `iscsi_sbps.md` page is going to be covered by the revisions to the "Manage selective node personalization" page. So I'm going to mark this comment resolved. I'll be reviewing the updates made to the other page, so if there are problems after the move, I can make new comments.

>      And this has to be done before the step #8 in the document [configure administrative access](https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/release/1.7/install/configure_administrative_access.md)

Reviewer: All internal docs-csm links on this page need to be relative links.

>      And this has to be done before the step #8 in the document [configure administrative access](https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/release/1.7/install/configure_administrative_access.md)

Reviewer: The capitalization of the link should match the header of the page (or subheader, when linking to a subsection)
```suggestion
     And this has to be done before the step #8 in the document [Configure Administrative Access](https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/release/1.7/install/configure_administrative_access.md)
```

Reviewer: Talked to Ashalatha. We've agreed that this part of the `iscsi_sbps.md` page is going to be covered by the revisions to the "Manage selective node personalization" page. So I'm going to mark this comment resolved. I'll be reviewing the updates made to the other page, so if there are problems after the move, I can make new comments.

>      And this has to be done before the step #8 in the document [configure administrative access](https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/blob/release/1.7/install/configure_administrative_access.md)

Reviewer: This makes more sense to put at the beginning of this section.

Reviewer: Talked to Ashalatha. We've agreed that this part of the `iscsi_sbps.md` page is going to be covered by the revisions to the "Manage selective node personalization" page. So I'm going to mark this comment resolved. I'll be reviewing the updates made to the other page, so if there are problems after the move, I can make new comments.

with necessary provisioning, configuration and enable required components. The required RPMs for `targetcli` command / LIO are part of NCN node image in CSM 1.6.
The SBPS Marshal Agent gets installed during node personalization using CFS.

#### Selective worker node personalization

> In CSM 1.6, all worker nodes are configured and enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets during [Management Node Personalization](../configuration_management/Management_Node_Personalization.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CSM 1.6, all worker NCNs are configured and enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets using
[Management Node Personalization](../configuration_management/Management_Node_Personalization.md).
```

Starting in CSM 1.7.0, selective iSCSI worker node personalization is introduced. All worker nodes are still **configured** for iSCSI, but selective node personalization gives administrators control over which worker nodes are enabled as iSCSI
SBPS targets. The default behavior is still the same as in CSM 1.6, so if no action is taken to use this feature,
then all worker nodes will continue to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

> For details on iSCSI selective worker node personalization, see [Managing selective node personalization](../iscsi_sbps/Managing_selective_node_personalization.md).

Reviewer: We should remove the redundancy from the relative link.
```suggestion
For details on iSCSI selective worker node personalization, see [Managing selective node personalization](Managing_selective_node_personalization.md).
```

> with necessary provisioning, configuration and enable required components. The required RPMs for `targetcli` command / LIO are part of NCN node image in CSM 1.6.

Reviewer: Is this still true in CSM 1.7?

Author: yes

Author: I think we can mention just as 'part of NCN node image'

The SBPS Marshal Agent gets installed during node personalization using CFS.

#### Selective worker node personalization

In CSM 1.6, all worker nodes are configured and enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets during [Management Node Personalization](../configuration_management/Management_Node_Personalization.md)

Starting in CSM 1.7.0, selective iSCSI worker node personalization is introduced. All worker nodes are still **configured** for iSCSI, but selective node personalization gives administrators control over which worker nodes are enabled
as iSCSI
SBPS targets. The default behavior is still the same as in CSM 1.6, so if no action is taken to use this feature,

> then all worker nodes will continue to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

Reviewer: Change line breaks to make future PRs easier (one sentence per line)
```suggestion
Starting in CSM 1.7.0, selective iSCSI worker node personalization is introduced.
All worker nodes are still **configured** for iSCSI, but selective node personalization gives administrators control over which worker nodes are enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets.
The default behavior is still the same as in CSM 1.6, so if no action is taken to use this feature, then all worker nodes will continue to be enabled as iSCSI targets.
```

with necessary provisioning, configuration and enable required components. The required RPMs for `targetcli` command / LIO are part of NCN node image in CSM 1.6.
The SBPS Marshal Agent gets installed during node personalization using CFS.

#### Selective worker node personalization

In CSM 1.6, all worker nodes are configured and enabled as iSCSI SBPS targets during [Management Node Personalization](../configuration_management/Management_Node_Personalization.md)

Starting in CSM 1.7.0, selective iSCSI worker node personalization is introduced. All worker nodes are still **configured** for iSCSI, but selective node personalization gives administrators control over which worker nodes are enabled as iSCSI
SBPS targets. The default behavior is still the same as in CSM 1.6, so if no action is taken to use this feature,
then all worker nodes will continue to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

For details on iSCSI selective worker node personalization, see [Managing selective node personalization](../iscsi_sbps/Managing_selective_node_personalization.md).

> #### Worker node personalization procedure
> 

Reviewer: Probably don't really even need this subsection in this document anymore.
```suggestion
```

> This procedure varies depending on whether this is being done during a fresh install of CSM, an upgrade from CSM 1.6
> to CSM 1.7, or on an operational CSM 1.7+ system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

It is initiated during bootprep (`management-nodes-rollout`) in order to do worker node personalization
automatically during boot time.

After the worker node personalization, verify the same using [Node Personalization Verification](Node_Personalization_Verification.md)

### 2. Run GOSS test suite

In order to verify the readiness of the iSCSI targets before triggering the boot of compute nodes or UANs, it is important to run GOSS tests as sanity checks on iSCSI targets.

> Refer to [GOSS tests for SBPS](https://github.com/Cray-HPE/sbps-marshal/blob/main/GOSS_tests_for_sbps.md) for the details.

Reviewer: This same link is used also in the CSM 1.6 docs. But changes were made to some of these things between CSM 1.6 and CSM 1.7. And looking at the target page, it mostly seems to be intended for CSM 1.6 (the test scripts it links to are from the `csm-testing` CSM 1.6 branch, for example).

This link needs to point to relevant information for CSM 1.7.

The ideal solution would be to move the content from that other repo into `docs-csm`. Otherwise, some method will need to be used to make sure that `docs-csm` always points to the appropriate version of that page, even as changes are made to that page over new releases of SBPS.

(This comment equally applies to the Goss link in the new Node Verification page)

Reviewer: I don't see any changes that have been made to address this. Can you point out the changes you made that you believe have addressed it?

Author: I think I took the text changes suggested.

Reviewer: What text changes? I didn't make any specific suggestions for text changes.

Author: As discussed over chat we can address this in a separate ticket.

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

It is initiated during bootprep (`management-nodes-rollout`) in order to do worker node personalization
automatically during boot time.

> After the worker node personalization, verify the same using [Node Personalization Verification](Node_Personalization_Verification.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the workers have run node personalization, administrators may verify the iSCSI configuration using [Node Personalization Verification](Node_Personalization_Verification.md).
```

> ### 2. Run GOSS test suite

Reviewer: Shouldn't they verify the iSCSI configuration completely? The verification page has 2 other checks beyond the Goss tests. Why would those not be done here? If they should be done here, then this should probably have its section renamed to something like Verify ISCSI Readiness, and should link to the verification page instead of to the external GOSS link

Reviewer: I don't see any changes made to address this. Can you point out what changes were made for it?

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.
